.TH .INTERNAL_CALL 1 2026-7月 "internal" "Invoke an Analysis Application (Internal Function)"
.SH NAME
.internal_call \- .internal_call(app, context)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fI.internal_call(app, context)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


This internal function executes a single analysis application after
validating its declared dependencies. It is responsible for application
invocation, error reporting on missing dependencies, and performance
profiling of the executed module.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBapp\fB \fR\- . A list defining the analysis application. The following
slots are expected to be present:
\describe{
\item{\code{name}}{(character) Name of the application, used for
logging and error reporting.}
\item{\code{call}}{(function) The function that implements the
application logic. It must accept two parameters named
\code{app} and \code{context}.}
\item{\code{profiler}}{(list) A slot used to store performance
metrics, such as the total execution time of the module.}
}
.PP
.PP
\fBcontext\fB \fR\- . A list or environment providing the runtime context,
such as input data paths, environment variables, or configuration
settings required by the application. This is the workflow context
object created by \code{\link{init_context}}.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
Invisibly returns \code{NULL}. The function primarily updates
\code{app$profiler} with execution time metrics and may modify the
\code{context} object during execution as a side effect of running
the application.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The function performs the following steps in order:
\enumerate{
\item \strong{Dependency Check}: Validates whether the required
context variables and workspace files exist via
\code{\link{check_dependency}}.
\itemize{
\item If all dependencies are satisfied, the function proceeds
to execute the application.
\item If any dependency is missing, an error is thrown with a
detailed report of the missing resources.
}
\item \strong{Execution}:
\itemize{
\item Logs the start and end timestamps when
\code{options(verbose = TRUE)} is set.
\item Executes \code{app$call} with arguments \code{app} and
\code{context} using \code{do.call()}.
}
\item \strong{Error Handling}:
\itemize{
\item Aggregates missing dependencies into a human-readable
error message.
\item Calls \code{\link{throw_err}} to terminate the workflow
and report the issues to the user.
}
\item \strong{Profiling}:
Records the total execution time in \code{app$profiler$time}
using \code{\link{time_span}} for human-readable formatting.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# Define a sample application
app <- list(
name = "demo_analysis",
call = function(app, context) {
print(paste("Running:", app$name))
},
profiler = list()
)
# Execute with context
.internal_call(app, context = list())

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{check_dependency}}, \code{\link{throw_err}},
\code{\link{time_span}}, \code{\link{__runImpl}}
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function..internal_call at internal_call.R:line 93
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT + file LICENSE Licensed 2026
