.TH __RUNIMPL 1 2026-7月 "internal" "Internal Workflow Execution Engine"
.SH NAME
__runImpl \- __runImpl(context,
    <i>disables</i> = 'list'())
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fI__runImpl(context,
    <i>disables</i> = 'list'())\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


An internal function that drives the execution of a modular workflow.
It sequentially processes analysis modules according to the pipeline
configuration stored inside the workflow context while respecting the
disablement rules that may be configured either through the
\code{disables} argument or through the \code{disable} flag of each
individual application module.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBcontext\fB \fR\- . A workflow context object, typically obtained via
\code{\link{.get_context}}. The following slots are used by this
function:
\itemize{
\item{\code{pipeline} - a character vector that defines the module
execution order.}
\item{\code{workflow} - a named list of registered module
definitions, keyed by module name.}
}
.PP
.PP
\fBdisables\fB \fR\- 'list'(). A named list specifying module disablement status.
The expected format is \code{list(module_name = TRUE/FALSE)}. Modules
whose entry is set to \code{TRUE} will be skipped during execution.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
Invisibly returns \code{NULL}. The side effect of this function is the
execution of the workflow modules and the in-place modification of the
workflow context object.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
This function performs the following steps for each module name found
in \code{context$pipeline}:
\enumerate{
\item Retrieves the module definition object from
\code{context$workflow}.
\item Checks the disablement status through two independent
mechanisms:
\itemize{
\item Explicit disablement via the \code{disables} parameter
passed to this function.
\item The module's own \code{disable} property, which may have
been set by upstream modules to short-circuit downstream
execution.
}
\item Executes non-disabled modules by invoking
\code{\link{.internal_call}} with the module definition and
the workflow context.
\item Produces verbose logging when
\code{options(verbose = TRUE)} is set, including the list of
disabled modules and the configuration values.
}
The workflow context is modified in-place by each module execution,
which allows downstream modules to consume results produced by their
upstream predecessors.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{.internal_call}} for the module execution logic,
\code{\link{run}} for the public entry point of the workflow engine.
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.__runImpl at runner.R:line 65
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT + file LICENSE Licensed 2026
