.TH APP 1 2026-7月 "" "Analysis Application Module Constructor"
.SH NAME
app \- app(name, analysis,
    <i>desc</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'no description'</strong></span>,
    <i>dependency</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIapp(name, analysis,
    <i>desc</i> = <span style='color: brown;'><strong>'no description'</strong></span>,
    <i>dependency</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Constructs a new analysis application module object from a callable
function and its associated metadata. The returned list object is
the canonical representation of a workflow module and is the value
that is registered into the workflow context via the
\code{\link{hook}} function.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBname\fB \fR\- . a character vector of the analysis application name.
The name is used as the unique identifier of the module inside
the workflow registry and is also used to derive the workspace
directory path of the module.
.PP
.PP
\fBanalysis\fB \fR\- . a callable function that implements the data
analysis content of the module. The function declaration
signature for this parameter value requires exactly two
parameters named \code{app} and \code{context}; see the
documentation of \code{\link{app_check.delegate}} for the
rationale behind this constraint.
.PP
.PP
\fBdesc\fB \fR\- 'no description'. a character vector of the human-readable description
of the analysis application. The default value of
\code{"no description"} is used when no description is supplied.
.PP
.PP
\fBdependency\fB \fR\- NULL. the dependency declaration of the application
module, usually produced by the \code{\link{set_dependency}}
function. The dependency declaration describes the environment
symbols and the workspace files that the module requires in
order to run successfully. The default value of \code{NULL}
means that the module has no declared dependencies.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
A named list object that represents the analysis application
module. The list contains the following slots:
\describe{
\item{\code{name}}{the analysis application name.}
\item{\code{call}}{the analysis function to be invoked.}
\item{\code{desc}}{the human-readable description.}
\item{\code{dependency}}{the dependency declaration list.}
\item{\code{disable}}{a logical flag initialized to \code{FALSE}
that can be flipped at runtime by \code{\link{set_disable}}.}
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
Before constructing the application object, the function validates
the declaration signature of the supplied \code{analysis} function
via \code{\link{app_check.delegate}}. When the signature is
invalid (i.e. the function does not declare exactly two parameters
named \code{app} and \code{context}), the workflow is aborted via
\code{\link{throw_err}} with an appropriate error message.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

my_module <- app(
name = "demo",
analysis = function(app, context) {
print("running demo module");
},
desc = "a demo analysis module"
);
hook(my_module);

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{hook}}, \code{\link{set_dependency}},
\code{\link{app_check.delegate}}, \code{\link{set_disable}}
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.app at app.R:line 67
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxieguigang\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT + file LICENSE Licensed 2026
