.TH CHECK_DEPENDENCY.LOCALFILES 1 2026-7月 "internal" "Check the Workspace File Dependencies of an Application"
.SH NAME
check_dependency.localfiles \- check_dependency.localfiles(requires, context)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIcheck_dependency.localfiles(requires, context)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Validates that all of the workspace files declared by an analysis
application are present in the workspace directories of their
producing applications. This implementation of the
\code{\link{check_dependency}} generic function is responsible for
the \code{tempfiles} part of the dependency declaration.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBrequires\fB \fR\- . 
.PP
.PP
\fBcontext\fB \fR\- . the workflow context object that is used to resolve
the workspace directory paths. The object is typically obtained
via \code{\link{.get_context}}.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
A named list object that summarizes the result of the workspace
file dependency check. The list contains the following elements:
\describe{
\item{\code{check}}{a logical value that is \code{TRUE} when all
required workspace files are present on disk, and \code{FALSE}
otherwise.}
\item{\code{file}}{a named list that describes the missing
files. The element names are the names of the producing
applications and the element values are character vectors of
the missing file paths relative to each application's
workspace directory.}
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The function iterates over the supplied \code{workfiles}
declaration and checks each file against the workspace directory
of its producing application. The workspace directory path is
resolved via \code{\link{workspace}}. When a required file does
not exist on disk, the file path is recorded in the \code{file}
list under the name of its producing application.
When at least one file is missing, the \code{check} result is set
to \code{FALSE}. The recorded \code{file} list is later used by
\code{\link{dependency.workfiles_missing}} to produce a
human-readable error message.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{check_dependency}},
\code{\link{check_dependency.context_env}},
\code{\link{set_dependency}}, \code{\link{workspace}},
\code{\link{dependency.workfiles_missing}}
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.check_dependency.localfiles at localfiles.R:line 53
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT + file LICENSE Licensed 2026
