.TH CHECK_DEPENDENCY 1 2026-7月 "" "Check the Dependencies of an Analysis Application"
.SH NAME
check_dependency \- check_dependency(app,
    <i>context</i> = '.get_context'())
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIcheck_dependency(app,
    <i>context</i> = '.get_context'())\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Generic function that validates the dependencies of an analysis
application against the current workflow context. The function
dispatches to one of the specialized implementations based on the
type of the dependency declaration found in the application
object.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBapp\fB \fR\- . the application object whose dependencies should be
checked. The object is expected to be a list with a
\code{dependency} slot, as produced by \code{\link{app}}.
.PP
.PP
\fBcontext\fB \fR\- '.get_context'(). the workflow context object that is used to resolve
the dependency declarations. The object is typically obtained
via \code{\link{.get_context}}.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
A named list object that summarizes the result of the dependency
check. The list contains the following elements:
\describe{
\item{\code{check}}{a logical value that is \code{TRUE} when all
dependencies are satisfied and \code{FALSE} otherwise.}
\item{\code{context}}{a list describing the missing or
mismatched environment symbols, when applicable.}
\item{\code{file}}{a list describing the missing workspace
files, when applicable.}
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The function inspects the \code{dependency} slot of the supplied
application object and dispatches to the appropriate
implementation:
\itemize{
\item When the dependency declaration contains a
\code{context_env} slot, the function dispatches to
\code{\link{check_dependency.context_env}} to validate the
environment symbol dependencies.
\item When the dependency declaration contains a
\code{tempfiles} slot, the function dispatches to
\code{\link{check_dependency.localfiles}} to validate the
workspace file dependencies.
}
The two checks are combined so that the overall \code{check}
result is \code{TRUE} only when both the environment symbol and
the workspace file dependencies are satisfied.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

result <- check_dependency(my_app, .get_context());
if (!result$check) {
print("dependency check failed!");
}

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{check_dependency.context_env}},
\code{\link{check_dependency.localfiles}},
\code{\link{set_dependency}}, \code{\link{.internal_call}}
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.check_dependency at check_dependency.R:line 62
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxieguigang\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT + file LICENSE Licensed 2026
