.TH CREATE_MEMORY_CONTEXT 1 2026-7月 "" "Create an In-Memory Workflow Context for Debugging"
.SH NAME
create_memory_context \- create_memory_context(
    <i>mounts</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>ssid</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIcreate_memory_context(
    <i>mounts</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>ssid</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Creates a lightweight in-memory workflow context object that is
intended for debugging and unit testing scenarios where no on-disk
workspace is required. All workspace directory paths of the created
context are set to \code{NULL}, and the optional \code{mounts}
callback can be used to register application modules into the
workflow registry immediately after the context is created.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBmounts\fB \fR\- NULL. an optional callable function that is invoked (with
no arguments) after the in-memory context has been installed.
This function is expected to mount the application modules into
the workflow registry by calling \code{\link{hook}} for each
module that should participate in the workflow.
.PP
.PP
\fBssid\fB \fR\- NULL. the session identifier used for the multi-user
environment. The default value of \code{NULL} refers to the
global user environment.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
Invisibly returns \code{NULL}. The side effect of this function is
the installation of an in-memory workflow context object in the
global environment.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The created context has the same structure as the one produced by
\code{\link{init_context}}, but with all directory paths set to
\code{NULL}. This makes the function particularly useful for
dependency-graph analysis (see \code{\link{dependency_graph}}) and
for unit tests that do not need to touch the filesystem.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

create_memory_context(function() {
hook(my_analysis_module);
});

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{init_context}}, \code{\link{.get_context}},
\code{\link{hook}}, \code{\link{dependency_graph}}
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.create_memory_context at memory_access.R:line 44
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxieguigang\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT + file LICENSE Licensed 2026
