.TH DEPENDENCY_GRAPH 1 2026-7月 "" "Build the Dependency Graph of the Workflow Modules"
.SH NAME
dependency_graph \- dependency_graph(pool)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIdependency_graph(pool)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Constructs an \code{igraph} object that represents the dependency
relationships between the analysis application modules registered
in the workflow. Each vertex of the graph corresponds to an
application module and each edge represents a file dependency
from a consumer module to its producing module.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBpool\fB \fR\- . a named list of analysis application objects, as
stored in the \code{workflow} slot of the workflow context.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
An \code{igraph} object that represents the dependency graph of
the supplied workflow modules. The vertex names of the graph are
the application names, and each edge is directed from a consumer
module to its producing module.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The function iterates over the supplied \code{pool} of
application modules and inspects the \code{tempfiles} slot of
each module's dependency declaration. For each required file, an
edge is added from the consumer module to the producing module.
The resulting graph can be used to detect circular references,
missing producers, or unreachable modules via the standard
\code{igraph} functions. The graph is also used by
\code{\link{dependency_analysis}} to produce a comprehensive
report of the workflow structure.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

pool <- .get_context()$workflow;
g <- dependency_graph(pool);
plot(g);

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{dependency_analysis}},
\code{\link{extract_workflow_vertex}}, \code{\link{set_dependency}}
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.dependency_graph at dependency_graph.R:line 43
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxieguigang\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT + file LICENSE Licensed 2026
