.TH DEPENDENCY_ANALYSIS 1 2026-7月 "" "Analyze the Dependency Graph of the Workflow Modules"
.SH NAME
dependency_analysis \- dependency_analysis(
    <i>verbose</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>FALSE</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIdependency_analysis(
    <i>verbose</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>FALSE</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Builds a dependency graph of all analysis application modules that
have been registered in the current workflow context and analyzes
the graph to detect potential issues such as missing dependencies,
circular references, or unreachable modules. The function is
primarily intended for debugging and for producing a visual
overview of the workflow structure.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBverbose\fB \fR\- FALSE. a logical value that controls whether diagnostic
information about the dependency analysis should be printed.
The default value of \code{FALSE} suppresses the output. When
\code{options(verbose = TRUE)} is set, the function always
behaves as if \code{verbose = TRUE}.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
A named list object that contains the result of the dependency
analysis. The list contains the following elements:
\describe{
\item{\code{graph}}{an \code{igraph} object that represents the
dependency graph of the workflow modules. Each vertex
corresponds to an application module and each edge represents
a file dependency from one module to another.}
\item{\code{vertices}}{a data frame that describes the vertices
of the dependency graph, as produced by
\code{\link{extract_workflow_vertex}}.}
\item{\code{issues}}{a list of detected issues, such as missing
dependencies or circular references.}
}
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The function performs the following steps:
\enumerate{
\item Retrieves the workflow context via \code{\link{.get_context}}
and collects the dependency declarations of all registered
application modules.
\item Builds a dependency graph via \code{\link{dependency_graph}}
in which each vertex represents an application module and each
edge represents a file dependency from a consumer module to
its producing module.
\item Extracts the vertex information via
\code{\link{extract_workflow_vertex}} for downstream
inspection.
\item Analyzes the graph for potential issues such as missing
dependencies, circular references, or unreachable modules.
}
When \code{verbose} is \code{TRUE}, the function prints the
dependency graph and the detected issues to the standard output
for debugging purposes.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

WorkflowRender::init_context("/path/to/workdir/");
hook(app("demo", function(app, context) { print("hi"); }));
result <- dependency_analysis();
print(result$graph);

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{dependency_graph}},
\code{\link{extract_workflow_vertex}}, \code{\link{.get_context}}
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.dependency_analysis at dependency_analysis.R:line 66
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxieguigang\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT + file LICENSE Licensed 2026
