.TH ECHO_WARNING 1 2026-7月 "" "Print a Warning Message to the Screen and the Log File"
.SH NAME
echo_warning \- echo_warning(msg,
    <i>app</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>ssid</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIecho_warning(msg,
    <i>app</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>ssid</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Emits a warning message both to the standard R# warning stream and
to the warning log file located inside the workflow temporary
directory. The message is prefixed with the name of the application
module that produced it (when available) so that the source of the
warning can be easily identified when reviewing the log file.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBmsg\fB \fR\- . a character vector (or any object coercible to one) of
the warning message text that the workflow produced. The elements
of the vector are unlisted and concatenated before being written.
.PP
.PP
\fBapp\fB \fR\- NULL. the application object that produced this warning
message. This parameter can be \code{NULL} when the warning is not
associated with a specific application module. When non-null, the
application name is resolved via \code{\link{get_app_name}} and
used as a prefix for the message.
.PP
.PP
\fBssid\fB \fR\- NULL. the session identifier used for the multi-user
environment. The default value of \code{NULL} refers to the global
session environment.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
Invisibly returns \code{NULL}. The side effects of this function
are the emission of an immediate warning to the standard output and
the appending of the warning message to the warning log file.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The warning log file path is constructed as
\code{<temp_dir>/warning}, where \code{temp_dir} is the temporary
directory of the current workflow context. The file is opened in
append mode so that successive warnings accumulate across the entire
workflow run, and is closed before the function returns to ensure
that the data is flushed to disk.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

echo_warning("value of arg1 is missing, using default.");

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{throw_err}}, \code{\link{get_app_name}},
\code{\link{.get_context}}
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.echo_warning at utils.R:line 45
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxieguigang\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT + file LICENSE Licensed 2026
