.TH FILEPATH_SAFE 1 2026-7月 "" "Create a File Path Safely"
.SH NAME
filepath_safe \- filepath_safe(dir, filename,
    <i>maxchars</i> = <span style='color: green;'>48</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIfilepath_safe(dir, filename,
    <i>maxchars</i> = <span style='color: green;'>48</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Constructs a file path by combining a directory and a file name,
applying a normalization step to the file name so that the resulting
path is safe to use on any operating system. This is particularly
useful when the file name is derived from user input or from
analysis metadata that may contain characters that are not allowed
in file names.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBdir\fB \fR\- . a character vector of the directory path that should
contain the target file.
.PP
.PP
\fBfilename\fB \fR\- . a character vector of the file name that should be
normalized and combined with the directory path.
.PP
.PP
\fBmaxchars\fB \fR\- 48. an integer value that specifies the maximum number
of characters allowed in the normalized file name. The default
value of \code{48} is chosen to stay well below the typical file
name length limit of most operating systems. File names that
exceed this limit will be shrunk.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
A character vector of the safe file path, constructed by combining
the input directory and the normalized file name via
\code{\link{file.path}}.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
This function generates a new character vector based on the input
directory and file name for saving a file safely. The file name is
processed in two steps:
\enumerate{
\item Removes the unsafe characters for the Windows filesystem
(such as \code{:}, \code{*}, \code{?}, \code{"}, \code{<},
\code{>}, \code{|} and a number of control characters).
\item Shrinks the file name if its string length exceeds the
\code{maxchars} limit, preserving as much of the original name
as possible while staying within the limit.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

filepath_safe("/tmp/workdir", "results:file?.txt");

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{normalizeFileName}}, \code{\link{file.path}}
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.filepath_safe at filetools.R:line 48
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxieguigang\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT + file LICENSE Licensed 2026
