.TH FINALIZE 1 2026-7月 "" "Mark the End of the Analysis Workflow"
.SH NAME
finalize \- finalize(
    <i>ssid</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIfinalize(
    <i>ssid</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Finalizes the current workflow session by reporting the total elapsed
time, unloading the workflow context environment, and closing the log
file that was opened by \code{\link{init_context}}. This function
should be called as the last step of a workflow run to ensure that
all allocated resources are released cleanly.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBssid\fB \fR\- NULL. the session identifier used for the multi-user
environment. The default value of \code{NULL} refers to the global
session environment. When a non-null value is supplied, only the
context associated with that session identifier is unloaded.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
Invisibly returns \code{NULL}. The side effects of this function are
the removal of the workflow context object from the global
environment and the closing of the active log file connection.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
This function is used to unload a specific workflow environment. It
performs the following actions in order:
\enumerate{
\item Prints a finalization banner together with the total elapsed
time of the workflow, computed as the difference between the
current time and the \code{t0} timestamp stored in the workflow
context.
\item Removes the workflow context object from the global
environment. The symbol name of the context is composed from
\code{__global_ctx} and the supplied \code{ssid}.
\item Closes the log file connection that was opened by
\code{\link{init_context}} via \code{sink()}, flushing any
buffered messages to disk.
}
Releasing the resources of the pipeline workflow modules in this way
avoids memory leaks across successive workflow runs and ensures that
log files are properly closed.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

WorkflowRender::init_context("/path/to/workdir/");
# ... run workflow modules ...
WorkflowRender::run();
WorkflowRender::finalize();

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{init_context}}, \code{\link{run}},
\code{\link{.get_context}}
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.finalize at finalize.R:line 53
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxieguigang\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT + file LICENSE Licensed 2026
