.TH GET_CONFIG 1 2026-7月 "" "Get a User Parameter Value from the Current Workflow Context"
.SH NAME
get_config \- get_config(name,
    <i>default</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>warn.msg</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIget_config(name,
    <i>default</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>warn.msg</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Retrieves the value of a user-supplied parameter from the workflow
context environment. The parameter name may be a simple key or a
dotted path separated by \code{$}, in which case the function
traverses the nested configuration list to locate the requested
value.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBname\fB \fR\- . a character vector of the parameter name. A nested
configuration value can be addressed using the \code{$} separator,
for example \code{"inputs$arg1"}.
.PP
.PP
\fBdefault\fB \fR\- NULL. the default value to return when the parameter is
missing from the workflow context environment. The default value
of \code{NULL} means that no default is supplied.
.PP
.PP
\fBwarn.msg\fB \fR\- NULL. 
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
The parameter value found in the workflow context, or the supplied
\code{default} value when the parameter is missing. The returned
value may be of any data type; a type cast function expression
(such as \code{as.logical}, \code{as.double}, etc.) may be required
to convert the returned character value to the desired type.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The function splits the supplied \code{name} on the \code{$}
separator and walks the configuration list returned by
\code{\link{pull_configs}} step by step. If any intermediate key is
missing, the function returns the \code{default} value (and emits
the \code{warn_msg} warning when one is supplied). When the
\code{verbose} option is enabled, the function prints the
configuration path being resolved for debugging purposes.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# simple key
arg1 <- get_config("arg1", default = "fallback");
# nested path
value <- get_config("inputs$arg1", default = 0);

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{set_config}}, \code{\link{pull_configs}},
\code{\link{echo_warning}}
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.get_config at get_config.R:line 52
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxieguigang\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT + file LICENSE Licensed 2026
