.TH GET_APP_NAME 1 2026-7月 "" "Get the Application Name of a Workflow Module"
.SH NAME
get_app_name \- get_app_name(app)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIget_app_name(app)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Generic function that resolves the application name of a workflow
module from either a fully-formed application object or a bare
function reference. The function dispatches to one of the
specialized implementations based on the type of the supplied
argument.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBapp\fB \fR\- . the application object whose name should be extracted.
This parameter can be supplied in two forms:
\enumerate{
\item An application list object produced by the
\code{\link{app}} function. In this case the function
dispatches to \code{\link{get_appName.obj}}.
\item A bare function reference that has been registered in
the workflow context via \code{\link{hook}}. In this case
the function dispatches to
\code{\link{get_appName.func_reference}}.
}
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
A character vector of the application name. When the supplied
object is a bare function reference that has not been registered
in the workflow context yet, an empty string is returned.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The function uses the R# generic function dispatch mechanism to
select the appropriate implementation:
\itemize{
\item When \code{app} is a list object, the function dispatches
to \code{\link{get_appName.obj}}, which simply returns the
value of the \code{name} slot.
\item When \code{app} is a callable function, the function
dispatches to \code{\link{get_appName.func_reference}}, which
looks up the application name in the \code{symbols} map of
the workflow context.
}
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# from an application object
name <- get_app_name(my_app);
# from a function reference
name <- get_app_name(my_func);

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{get_appName.obj}},
\code{\link{get_appName.func_reference}}, \code{\link{app}},
\code{\link{hook}}
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.get_app_name at get_app_name.R:line 55
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxieguigang\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT + file LICENSE Licensed 2026
