.TH HOOK 1 2026-7月 "" "Add a Workflow Application Component into the Registry"
.SH NAME
hook \- hook(app)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIhook(app)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Registers an analysis application module into the workflow context
so that it can be invoked by the workflow execution engine. The
supplied application object is appended to the \code{workflow}
tuple list of the context and its name is appended to the
\code{pipeline} execution sequence.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBapp\fB \fR\- . the application object to be registered. This parameter
can be supplied in two forms:
\enumerate{
\item An application list object produced by the
\code{\link{app}} function.
\item A bare function object that has been tagged with the
\code{@app} custom attribute (and optionally \code{@desc},
\code{@context_env} and \code{@workfiles}). In this case the
function is automatically converted into an application
object via \code{\link{__build_app}} before being registered.
}
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
Invisibly returns \code{NULL}. The side effect of this function is
the modification of the \code{workflow}, \code{pipeline} and
\code{symbols} slots of the workflow context stored in the global
environment.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The application module is added to the \code{context$workflow}
tuple list, keyed by its name. In addition, the function name of
the analysis callable is recorded in the \code{symbols} map of the
context so that the application name can later be resolved from a
bare function reference via
\code{\link{get_appName.func_reference}}.
Before registering the module, the function performs two
validation checks:
\itemize{
\item The application name must be a non-empty string. When the
name is empty, the workflow is aborted via
\code{\link{throw_err}}.
\item The application object must pass the signature check
performed by \code{\link{app_check.signature}}. When the check
fails, the workflow is aborted with an explanatory error
message.
}
Finally, the application name is appended to the \code{pipeline}
slot of the context so that the module is activated by default in
subsequent workflow runs.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# register an application object
hook(app("demo", function(app, context) { print("hi"); }));
# register a tagged function
[@app "demo"]
let demo = function(app, context) { print("hi"); };
hook(demo);

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{app}}, \code{\link{__build_app}},
\code{\link{app_check.signature}}, \code{\link{get_functionName}}
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.hook at hook.R:line 68
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxieguigang\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT + file LICENSE Licensed 2026
