.TH RUN 1 2026-7月 "" "Run the Composed Data Analysis Workflow"
.SH NAME
run \- run(
    <i>registry</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>disables</i> = 'list'(),
    <i>debug</i> = 'c'())
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIrun(
    <i>registry</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>disables</i> = 'list'(),
    <i>debug</i> = 'c'())\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Launches execution of a modular data analysis workflow that has been
assembled from individual analysis application modules. The execution
order of the modules is determined by the pipeline vector stored inside
the workflow context, and each module is invoked sequentially by the
internal execution engine.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBregistry\fB \fR\- NULL. an optional callable function used to register workflow
modules into the runtime registry. This parameter can be omitted
(i.e. left as \code{NULL}) when the workflow processor applications
have already been hooked into the workflow via the \code{\link{hook}}
function. When provided, the function is invoked with no arguments
and is expected to call \code{\link{hook}} for each module that
should participate in the workflow.
.PP
.PP
\fBdisables\fB \fR\- 'list'(). a named list object that contains the workflow module
activation switches. The list element name should be the analysis
application name and the corresponding slot value should be a logical
value that indicates whether the workflow module is disabled or not:
\code{TRUE} disables and skips the module, while \code{FALSE},
\code{NULL} or a missing value enables the corresponding workflow
module.
.PP
.PP
\fBdebug\fB \fR\- 'c'(). an optional character vector of module names that should
be executed in this run. When non-empty, the pipeline sequence is
replaced by this vector via \code{\link{definePipeline}}, which is
convenient for debugging a specific subset of the workflow modules.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
This function invisibly returns \code{NULL}. The side effects of the
call are the execution of the workflow modules, the modification of the
workflow context in-place, and the production of analysis output files
inside the configured workspace.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
A workflow is composed of a set of analysis modules. The execution
sequence of the workflow is determined by the module name vector stored
in the \code{pipeline} slot of the workflow context. Each module is
constructed via the \code{\link{app}} function (or auto-built from a
tagged function via \code{\link{hook}}) and is invoked in turn by the
internal runner \code{\link{__runImpl}}.
When the \code{registry} parameter is provided, it is invoked first so
that the analysis modules can be hooked into the workflow context. When
the \code{debug} parameter is non-empty, the pipeline is overridden to
run only the specified modules, which is useful for testing or
debugging individual stages of the workflow.
Verbose diagnostic output (pipeline list, configuration values and
per-module execution logs) can be enabled by setting
\code{options(verbose = TRUE)} before calling this function.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# example for run workflow
# 1. initialize of the workspace filesystem
WorkflowRender::init_context("/path/to/workdir/");
# 2. setup the module runtime parameters
#    where arg1, arg2 are parameter names that can be accessed
#    at runtime via the `get_config` function
WorkflowRender::set_config(list(arg1 = "xxx", arg2 = "xxx"));
# 3. hook of the workflow module
#    define an example workflow module, the workflow module name is
#    defined via the `@app` custom attribute of the module function
[@app "example1"]
let example1 = function(app, context) {
# just echo the value of arg1 at here
message(get_config("arg1"));
}
[@app "example2"]
let example2 = function(app, context) {
# just echo the value of arg2 at here
message(get_config("arg2"));
}
# optional, then hook of the workflow function into runtime
# these could be hooked inside the registry function
WorkflowRender::hook(example1);
WorkflowRender::hook(example2);
# 4. run the workflow: example1 -> example2
WorkflowRender::run();
# if you want to run a specific workflow module, use the debug parameter
# WorkflowRender::run(debug = "example2");
# hook the workflow modules via a registry function
# WorkflowRender::run(registry = function() {
#    WorkflowRender::hook(example1);
#    WorkflowRender::hook(example2);
# });
# 5. release the memory data, close the logfile
WorkflowRender::finalize();

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{init_context}}, \code{\link{hook}}, \code{\link{definePipeline}},
\code{\link{finalize}}, \code{\link{__runImpl}}
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.run at workflowRender.R:line 106
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxieguigang\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT + file LICENSE Licensed 2026
