.TH THROW_ERR 1 2026-7月 "" "Echo an Error Message and Crash the Workflow"
.SH NAME
throw_err \- throw_err(msg,
    <i>app</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>ssid</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIthrow_err(msg,
    <i>app</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>ssid</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Prints an error message to the standard output, writes the same
message to the error log file located inside the workflow temporary
directory, and then terminates the workflow by raising a stop
condition. This function is the canonical way to report fatal
errors from inside workflow modules.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBmsg\fB \fR\- . a character vector (or any object coercible to one) of
the error message text. The elements of the vector are unlisted
and concatenated before being displayed and written.
.PP
.PP
\fBapp\fB \fR\- NULL. reserved for future use; the application object that
produced this error message. Currently not used by the
implementation but accepted for API symmetry with
\code{\link{echo_warning}}.
.PP
.PP
\fBssid\fB \fR\- NULL. the session identifier used for the multi-user
environment. The default value of \code{NULL} refers to the global
session environment.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
This function does not return; it terminates the workflow via
\code{.Internal::stop()}.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
This function is a thin wrapper around the \code{stop} function
that additionally writes the error message to the error log file
located at \code{<temp_dir>/error}. The error log is overwritten on
each invocation, which means that only the most recent fatal error
is preserved in the log file at the end of a failed workflow run.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

throw_err("required input file is missing!");

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{echo_warning}}, \code{\link{.get_context}}
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.throw_err at utils.R:line 101
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxieguigang\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT + file LICENSE Licensed 2026
