.TH WORKSPACE 1 2026-7月 "" "Get the Workspace Location of an Analysis Application"
.SH NAME
workspace \- workspace(app,
    <i>ssid</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>verbose</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>FALSE</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIworkspace(app,
    <i>ssid</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>verbose</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>FALSE</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Returns the workspace directory path that has been allocated to a
specific analysis application inside the workflow temporary
directory. The workspace directory is used by the application to
store its intermediate result files so that they can be consumed
by downstream modules.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBapp\fB \fR\- . the application list object produced by
\code{\link{app}}, or alternatively a character vector giving the
application name directly.
.PP
.PP
\fBssid\fB \fR\- NULL. the session identifier used for the multi-user
environment. The default value of \code{NULL} refers to the
global user environment.
.PP
.PP
\fBverbose\fB \fR\- FALSE. a logical value that controls whether diagnostic
information about the resolved workspace path should be printed.
The default value of \code{FALSE} suppresses the output. When
\code{options(verbose = TRUE)} is set, the function always
behaves as if \code{verbose = TRUE}.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
A character vector of the workspace directory path of the specific
analysis application. The path is normalized to an absolute path
and is located under
\code{<temp_dir>/workflow_tmp/<app_name>/}.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The verbose option can also be configured from the command-line
option \code{--verbose}. When the requested application has not
been registered in the analysis context yet, a warning is emitted
via \code{\link{echo_warning}} but the workspace path is still
returned so that the calling code can decide how to handle the
situation.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

ws <- workspace("my_analysis_module");

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{workfile}}, \code{\link{workdir_root}},
\code{\link{get_app_name}}, \code{\link{.get_context}}
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.workspace at workspace.R:line 46
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxieguigang\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT + file LICENSE Licensed 2026
