.TH WORKFILE 1 2026-7月 "" "Construct a File Path Inside an Application Workspace"
.SH NAME
workfile \- workfile(app,
    <i>relpath</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>ssid</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>verbose</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>FALSE</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIworkfile(app,
    <i>relpath</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>ssid</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>,
    <i>verbose</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>FALSE</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP


Resolves the physical file path of a data file that is located
inside the workspace directory of a specific analysis application.
The function accepts either an explicit application name plus a
relative file path, or a compact workfile URI expression of the
form \code{app://relpath/to/file.ext}.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBapp\fB \fR\- . this parameter value can be supplied in three different
forms:
\enumerate{
\item An application tuple list object, as created by the
\code{\link{app}} function.
\item A character vector giving the application name directly.
\item A workfile path expression in the format
\code{app://relpath/to/file.ext}. When this form is used, the
\code{relpath} parameter must be left as \code{NULL}.
}
.PP
.PP
\fBrelpath\fB \fR\- NULL. a character vector of the file path relative to the
workspace directory of the application. When \code{NULL} (the
default), the function assumes that the \code{app} parameter
contains a workfile URI expression that should be parsed to
extract both the application name and the relative file path.
.PP
.PP
\fBssid\fB \fR\- NULL. the session identifier used for the multi-user
environment. The default value of \code{NULL} refers to the
global user environment.
.PP
.PP
\fBverbose\fB \fR\- FALSE. a logical value that controls whether diagnostic
information about the resolved file path should be printed. The
default value of \code{FALSE} suppresses the output.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
A character vector of the physical file path of the requested
reference file inside the workflow workspace.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The workfile path expression uses the format string
\code{app://filepath}. For example, the expression
\code{getMzSet://mzset.txt} is parsed to extract the application
name \code{getMzSet} and the relative path \code{mzset.txt}. This
expression is therefore equivalent to the explicit function call
\code{workfile("getMzSet", "/mzset.txt")}.
When the \code{relpath} parameter is supplied as an empty value
but the \code{app} parameter is a character vector, the function
delegates the parsing of the URI expression to the internal helper
\code{\link{__workfile_uri_parser}}. When the \code{app} parameter
is not a character vector in this situation, an error is raised
because the supplied value cannot be interpreted as an internal
workfile path reference.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
#\dontrun{

# explicit form
path <- workfile("getMzSet", "mzset.txt");
# URI expression form
path <- workfile("getMzSet://mzset.txt");

#}
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{workspace}}, \code{\link{__workfile_uri_parser}},
\code{\link{get_app_name}}
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.workfile at workfile.R:line 66
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Written by \fBxieguigang\fR
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT + file LICENSE Licensed 2026
